# ItsAmansworld


## Friday, September 10^th^

# The place of women in society/ It's a man's World?

> Woman:
> 	- Book -> Novel -> Fiction -> Fictions world -> Dream
> 	- Cooking -> with apron(tablier) 
> 	- She active
> Man -> Newspapers -> Facts/Reality 
> 	- He relaxing

This chapter deals with the evolution of women's confitions that began to change after WW2(World war II)

<u>The picture</u>
The picture shows a woman in the foreground. she's doing quite a few things while the man is comforably seated and relaxing, The woman is *hoovering/vacuuming* the carpet and reading a book, most probably a novel. She's also wearing an <u>arpon</u> which siggests that she might be cooking. The fact that she is doing the <u>househoud</u>.

<u>chores</u> = (les taches ménagères) suggests that the scene takes place in the 50s or 60s. The facts she is reading a novel might mean that she...

suburbia => people who live in suburbs
		 => live un suburbs(périphérie/ banlieu)

suburb != city centre
a green area(weather people) on the outskirts of a city

:q

Vocaulaire: Exo:
breadwinner (n.) = gagneur de pain
homemaker (n.) = personne gérant la maison et famille
household (n.) = habitat
husband (n.) = mari
nuclear family = couple traditionnel
suburbia (n.) = banlieue
wife (n.) = épouse

misogynous (adj.) = n'aime pas les femmes
old-fashioned ≠ modern (adj.) = à l'ancienne
patriarchal (adj.) = société controlée par les hommes
traditional (adj.) = traditionel 
society's beliefs (exp.) = opinion commune 
sexism / male chauvinism (n.)  = sexisme
conform to / with / obey = obéir, conformer

household chores (exp.) = tâches ménagères
duty / obligation (n.) = obligation
educate / bring up / raise (v.) = éduquer 
instill (v.) = infliger/ancrer
keep up / continue (v.) = continuer 
pass on (v.) = hériter
take care of / look after (v.) = s'occuper de 

free oneself from (exp.) = se libérer de
stand up for sthg. (exp.) = se révolter pour
stuck in traditions (exp.) = coincé dans les traditions
contest (v.) = compétition
express (v.) = exprimer
give up (v.)  = abandonner
struggle (v.) = lutter

modern conveniences (exp.) = ennuyances modernes 
advertisement (n.) = pub
advertising (n.) = publiciter
commercial (n.) = commercial
marketing (n.) = marketing
propaganda (n.) = propagande
stay-at-home mother / housewife (exp.) = mère de foyer
college / university (n.) = université
rights (n.) = droits
secretary (n.) = secrétaire 
stewardess /ˈstjuːədəs/ (n.) = hotesse
workplace (n.) = lieu de travail
earn money (v.) = gagner de l'argent


College = university = faculté, université
collège = junior High (school)
lycée = high school


Document, is made up of a photogrph and a video, according to the docuement, women were educated to be good housewives, they only went to college to learn how to run thier houses in order to get a husbund.

But when a man wants a kiss, kid, he doesn't want a quiz(knowledge), kid, or you can't get a man with your brain.

Docuement 2: Man were taught to be strong and maculine, and to be avoid to have any weakness(ex: a man doesn't cry)

thos was the way society wanted man to be and to behave

Womenstayed at home and were responsible of upbringind the kids

---

p54:

It's a men ties
1a) This ad is for selling a tie for man who wanted to be more masculine. So the target audiance are for the mans.
b) The pichire show a women dishing out the breakfirst for his husband. So that can raduce some male chauvism and woman's brieng just hire to serve her husband. This ads want to attract mens about thier pride of being a man's world.

---

p55:

TV and movie spead the idea that wommen is not pepole they are just wifes
Our perception of sociality is influanced by TV and movie, 

---
Path a:
AT the 

---
Axe 5: Fiction and realities

Chivalry is not dead(medevial times)

Word and concepts associeted with medevial times: knights, swords
castle, fight, battle, kings, queens, heroes...

Elemeents relation medevial times imageru

weapons: sword sabers staff outfits and assessories: masks helmets, hoods

Activité 3:

a) Fight, saber, war,  knight, 
b) Jefi represent a knight
c) The link bettween starwars and medievail fition, for me is ridiculously obvious.
